#### basic info

- to protect our data from all audience and give access to specific people of our data we use jeson web toke (JWT)
- whenever user tried to access the data our server check if valid token is present in the request server provide the access otherwise server denied

### JWT

- JSON Web Tokens are an open, industry standard RFC 7519 method for representing claims securely between two parties.

- JWT.IO allows you to decode, verify and generate JWT.

#### more info...

- JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

#### other use of JWT

- When should you use JSON Web Tokens?
  Here are some scenarios where JSON Web Tokens are useful:

1. Authorization: This is the most common scenario for using JWT. Once the user is logged in, each subsequent request will include the JWT, allowing the user to access routes, services, and resources that are permitted with that token. Single Sign On is a feature that widely uses JWT nowadays, because of its small overhead and its ability to be easily used across different domains.

2. Information Exchange: JSON Web Tokens are a good way of securely transmitting information between parties. Because JWTs can be signed—for example, using public/private key pairs—you can be sure the senders are who they say they are. Additionally, as the signature is calculated using the header and the payload, you can also verify that the content hasn't been tampered with.
